# 教我如何学习——取得优异成绩的 12 个步骤

> 原文：<https://dev.to/charlesslagle/teach-me-how-to-study-12-steps-to-excellent-grades-kce>

A good quality education can take an individual far in his or her chosen career. Being well educated serves each person well by providing the tools for reasoning and making wise decisions.
A good education begins with the ability to grasp the information provided, which may indicate that study is needed. In such cases, the student may ask, “Teach me how to study, please? ” Below are Twelve steps that can make your studying attempts successful, leading to your learning the information and making excellent grades.
The process developing good study techniques must be done when all the usual interruptions have been blocked and cannot interfere with your studies. Your study environment must be peaceful and easy to access whenever it’s needed.
When studying, do so in a well lit room with a comfortable temperature that’s not too warm or too cold. The room should also have good ventilation. It’s preferable to sit when studying, rather than lying down and standing occasionally often helps many students stay awake and maintain an alert state of mind.
Step #1
First, take good notes and rewrite those notes if they’re not legible when you get home. Or ask [https://uk-essays.com/](https://uk-essays.com/) to help you. Add any additional information that was left out in the original notes.
Step #2
Second, study only when you are in your most alert state of mind, not when you’re tired or sleepy. If the best time of day for you is in the afternoon, study in the afternoon hours only.
Step #3
Third, [study](http://betterlesson.com/community/lesson/653881/quick-tip-an-unconventional-way-to-research-a-market-for-your-book) for a limited number of minutes, not all day, non-stop. By admitting you are entitled to a break, you accept the fact that humans have an attention span of a few minutes to an hour, but not much more than that. Try to limit your study time to 50 minutes to 1 hour. Put your books down and then nap or play music, simply relax your brain for 15 to 30 minutes.
Step #4
Fourth, ask questions in class to insure that you understand the information. Your understanding is essential. If the subject matter is not understandable, the likelihood that you’ll make good grades is very close to nil.
Step #5
Fifth, if you need a tutor, get a tutor to help you understand the basics of the subject matter you’re studying. From there you can probably work on your own, simply adding additional concepts onto that basic concept.
Step #6
Sixth, limit the distractions that interrupt your studies. Turn off the TV, radio, cell phone, turn off the ringer on your phone and don’t get caught up in social media diversions either.
Prepare snacks before you sit down to begin your studies. Make sure your snacks are healthy and tasty. Eat fruit, light sandwiches and veggie snacks. Do not eat sugary foods that give you a quick sugar high and then cause you to crash.
Step #7
Seventh, make your study space one that is quiet and free of noises and extraneous conversations from the street, building and roommates or family. If you must have noise, turn on the radio just so it’s loud enough to hear the instrumental music, no vocals.
This soft instrumental music playing in the background is more like white noise, which has been known to create a soothing environment. It may also help to mask outside noises that are far more distracting. Never listen to loud dance music when studying.
Step #8
Eighth, review your notes in a manner that will help you understand and remember them. This sometimes requires reciting the information out loud; associating them with something you learned previously; or pretending to teach the subject to someone else.
We all learn in various ways. Some of us learn by hearing, reading, writing, seeing, feeling and/or tasting. Try stimulating as many of your senses as is necessary to cause you to remember the information you are trying to learn. That’s why teaching the subject is so effective for many students. In order to teach, you first have to know the information so you’re able to explain it to others (even if by others you mean yourself).
Step #9
Ninth, use flash cards to jot down the most important points of the subject you’re studying. Put the answers on the back of the card. Review those cards when you are relaxing. Your primary study time is still when you are most alert, but supplement that time with your flash card study time which should take place randomly throughout the day. Check out the most helpful 12 tips about how to get good grades here.
Step #10
Tenth, for especially complex subject matter, it’s a good idea to form or be a part of a study group. Multiple parties working for a common purpose often help those who are having more difficulty because the person struggling to grasp the material hears the information from several different perspectives. This gives the student more ways of understanding the material.
Step #11
Eleventh, overcome procrastination. After establishing the best time to study and the best place, make sure you’re consistent with your studying times. Don’t try to study at the last minute. Crash studying is too stressful and generally doesn’t work for most students. Instead, study on a schedule of once daily, every two days or every week.
Step #12
Twelfth, take every opportunity to share the information with others. This will reinforce the knowledge in your mind and the easier it is for you to explain to others the more thoroughly you have learned the information.
Every new person you share this information with has the potential of adding to your understanding of the information. They may be professionals who have worked with that knowledge and applied it in their work. Grasping how the information is used in real life will only add to your understanding and make it more tangible to you.
If you’re asking, “Teach me how to study, please?” Steps 1 through 12 outline the best and most effective ways of learning effective study skills. By taking the time to find a comfortable environment that’s quiet and free of distractions, you’ve given yourself a base to begin learning a new subject. If you then follow the study tips that will help you retain the information you are studying, you will be a successful student of any subject.