# Signs of Good Learner. Before a Good Professional, Become a Good Learner

> 原文：[https://dev.to/jay_tillu/signs-of-good-learner-before-a-good-professional-become-a-good-learner-1292](https://dev.to/jay_tillu/signs-of-good-learner-before-a-good-professional-become-a-good-learner-1292)

> ***Before a Good Professional, Become a Good Learner.***

Who is Good Learner, What are the signs of good learners? I asked this question to myself from almost 30 days that what are the signs of good learners and What makes them unique.

Whether you are a Programmer, a Swimmer, a Cricketer, a Singer, a Basketball player or anything else. The first step to learning anything is to become a good learner.

Remember Good Learner is not anyone who is smart and nerd. Having Good Learning skills are different than just having smartness and intelligence. You may have smartness, intelligence, and good remembrance but only having these skills not makes you a good learner.

Smartness, Intelligence, and Good remembrance can make you scholar for a semester, but just ask yourself how much scholars are there in the world and how much newer are coming every year. Remember Sachin Tendulkar, Albert Einstein, Thomas Alva Edison, Sir Issac Newton, Bill Gates, Mark Zuckerberg they are not good scholars but they are good learners.

**Here are some signs of good learners.**

## [](#1-they-are-always-curious-to-learn-anything-new)1\. They are always Curious to learn anything new.

* * *

One of the most important signs of a good learner is they are always curious about learning new things. ***They believe that learning is not a destination but it’s a Journey.*** They are always hungry for new knowledge. They searched quite a lot, they ask quite a lot and they read quite a lot.

> ***I have no special talent. I am only passionately curious. — Albert Einstein***

## [](#2-they-are-extremely-dedicated)2\. They are extremely Dedicated.

* * *

Another sign of good learner is that they are extremely dedicated. Learning anything new or achieving any skill requires a lot of dedication. It is only you who decides, whether going to watch a movie or spend that two hours in learning or working. No one instead of you can decide this. Good learners are always dedicated to their work.

> ***The price of success is hard work, dedication to the job at hand, and the determination that whether we win or lose, we have applied the best of ourselves to the task at hand. — Vince Lombardi***

## [](#3-they-are-intense-hard-worker)3\. They are Intense Hard Worker.

* * *

Hard working the most important sign of a good learner. No matter how talented, intelligent, and smart you are, Hard work in a proper direction can beat these all. They know there is no shortcut available for achieving success in life, you must do a lot of hard work in the proper direction to achieve success. Even a Diamond needs to rub to get a shine. They know that the struggle they are in today is developing the strength they need for tomorrow. ***Remember the best view comes after the hardest climb…***

They don’t give up, They don’t complain, They don’t argue, They just work hard…

> ***There is nothing like one-night success Because behind the one-night success there were hard work of thousands of nights…***

## [](#4-they-have-a-lot-of-patience)4\. They have a lot of Patience.

* * *

You cannot become a programmer over a night. The same thing goes for everything. No one ever becomes a master overnight. Learning or Mastering any skill takes a lot of time, efforts, practice and persistence. Good learners put a lot of patients in their heart.

> ***What is Patience?
> A relentless persistence with a cool head and a faithful heart is called Patience.***

## [](#5-they-are-persistent)5\. They are Persistent.

* * *

To achieve anything in life you must be persistent in that. Whether it is Loving someone, Learning new skills, Building any relationship everything needs persistent efforts.

> ***Remember the River cuts the Rocks, Not because of its power but because of its Persistence…***

## [](#6-they-have-a-deep-faith-and-trust-on-their-hard-work-and-efforts)6\. They have a deep Faith and Trust on their hard work and efforts.

* * *

Good Learners have a deep faith and trust in their hard work. Remember hard work will pay off, not imminently but definitely.

Remember the Nights in which you were working, the celebrations and parties that you were missed, the faith that you have in your heart, the hard work that you did, will definitely pay back to you. Just don’t quit and do it till your last breath.

> ***Wake up with Determination and go to bed with satisfaction…***

## [](#7-good-learners-are-not-quitters)7\. Good Learners are Not Quitters.

* * *

Good Learners never quit. They also stuck at some point, They also got frustrated, They also face failures, They also face a lot of insults, but the one thing they never do is quitting. They worked hard, They find new paths, and at the end, they achieve what they want in life.

*You want to know the difference between a Master and a Beginner? The master has failed more times than the beginner has even tried.*

So next time before quitting anything just remember above example and try something new. **Remember Legends never change the Goal, They just change the Way.**

> ***A Smooth Sea Never Made A Skilled Sailor…***

## [](#8-they-are-humble)8\. They are Humble.

* * *

No matter how educated you are, if you are not humble then its all is worthless. Good Learners are always humble to others. They do respect of everyone.

For example, Just look at the God of Cricket Sachin Tendulkar, although he is a master blaster, hit 100 centuries but still, he is humble with every human being. **If your knowledge or skill doesn’t make you humble then it means you do not understand it properly.**

> ***Do the Right thing even when no one is watching, It’s called Integrity.***

So, guys, these are my eight opinions that define a Good Learner from my point of view. Feel free to know me if I miss something.

Till then Keep Coding, Keep Loving. Catch you up in the next article.

> **Wanna get in touch with me? Here are the links. I’ll love to become your friend.** 😊
> [Twitter](https://twitter.com/jay_tillu)
> [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/jaytillu.1314/)
> [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/jay.tillu/)
> [Medium](https://medium.com/jay-tillu)
> or just mail me at [jayviveki13@gmail.com](mailto:jayviveki13@gmail.com)