# AI 2019 状态:TL；DR；

> 原文：[https://dev.to/claudiodavi/state-of-ai-2019-tl-dr-4f16](https://dev.to/claudiodavi/state-of-ai-2019-tl-dr-4f16)

自第一份《人工智能状况报告》发布以来又过了一年，所以今年我决定(事实证明并非如此)快速浏览一下报告中我觉得有趣的几个主题。这份报告是一位专注于人工智能技术的风险投资人和天使投资人收集的“兴趣点”的汇编。该报告可在 [slideshare](https://www.stateof.ai/) 上找到

首先，他们在报告中考虑了以下关键因素:

*   **Research**: Technology breakthroughs and their capabilities
*   **Talent**: Supply, demand and concentration of talent
*   **Industry**: Large platforms, financing areas of application for AI-driven innovation today and tomorrow
*   **China**: With two distinct Internets, they considered AI in China a different category
*   **Politics**: Public opinion on AI, economic implications and emerging geopolitics of AI

## 研究

### 被征服

*   **AlphaStar**: DeepMind beat a world class Startcraft II player by a whooping 5-0\. This represents a huge breakthrough because the AI was running on imperfect information and controlling a huge action space in real time, on top of that, it had to make strategic decisions for long term goals, I personally was watching the match live on Youtube, as a former SC player, it was thrilling.
*   **OpenAi Five**: Dota2 bot win rate goes up to 99.4% win rate over 7,000 games with 15,000 live players.
*   **Creating Creativity**: We use rewards in Reinforcement learning to make our algorithm learn, as in real life it's hard to encode rewards, researchers are starting to also give rewards when the algorithm tries new approaches to the problem.
*   **From Lab to Prod**: With the recent release of Facebook's Horizon a Reinforcement Learning platform as an Open Source Software, RL systems optimizations starts to become more widespread. This platform can be used to optimize a set of actions based on the state of the agent at any given moment.
*   **AlphaFold is at it again**: Despite the huge breakthrough last year in protein folding, this year Alpha Fold has significantly outperformed itself.
*   **Natural Language Processing**: This going almost without saying, after the scandal around OpenAI's GPT-2 Model going dark, several labs reported great improvements on this area. Pre-trained models is where it is at guys!
*   **Common Sense - Some Machines have it, most humans don't**: Researchers at NYU trained inferential knowledge to acquire common sense and reason about previously unseen events.
*   **Growing Interest on Federated Learning**: This is like, distributed systems, but for AI. Instead of having a monolithic centralized machine, training is distributed into mobile devices for computation. Google just released their architecture on Federated Learning and how they are using it on GBoard. On top of that, Tensorflow gains a new flavor: Tensorflow Federated. Keep one eye on this one, the health care industry is all over this one.
*   **Privacy**: Companies like Google are starting to give emphasis on data privacy for ML models, Tensorflow Privacy now gives a strong mathematical guarantee that they do not remember your personal details.
*   **Reading Thoughts**: Neural networks can decode your thoughts from brain waves. The technique is still invasive requiring an electrocorticography (for now) but who knows about what can we develop in the next few months???
*   **Evolutionary AutoML**: Evolutionary algorithms are being used for neural network architecture and hyperparameter optimization. The previous technique consisted of RL algorithms.
*   **The age of Deep Fakes**: State of the art GANs are evolving fast, from images to audio, some companies are creating full body pictures with clothes for retail purposes. You guys remember the AI that sounded like Joe Rogan? So, that, and image, and video, and basically everything now.

## 天赋

顶级玩家(根据 NeurIPS 上的文章数量):

1.  Google
2.  MIT
3.  Stanford
4.  CMU
5.  Berkeley

*   88% of the researchers at NeurIPS, ICML or ICLR were men.
*   80% of AI professors are men and 75% of students of AI are also men
*   Data Labelling jobs are on the rise. ($1.47/h)
*   China's studies are growing in average citation rate, despite Europe securing the most number of AI papers published.
*   China again: AI courses enrollment is on the rise.
*   US, China, UK, Germany and Canada account for 72% of the authors of papers in 2018-2019
*   Hiring AI researchers is going down. Perhaps this is a sign to bring this applied research into production environments.

## 行业

*   **With big investments, comes ..**: Venture Capital in AI grows to reach > $27B/year
*   **Big Tech investments**: Big Tech continues to eat AI-first startups
*   **Robots taking over**: Robotics are on the rise, several processes can be improved like, warehouse management, supply-chain for e-commerce and even robots for building robots.
*   **Self Driving Road Bump**: Self Driving Cars are not the hype at the moment, several players retreated and most companies are missing deadlines.
*   **Demand forecasting**: As more data becomes available in digital form, it becomes increasingly more interesting to use machine learning to forecast demand. With better forecasts, business can prepare supply and reduce waste increasing their profitability. Usage Examples: Travel, Local Businesses, Logistics, Retail and others.
*   **Reading Machines**: With the advances of Natural Language Processing, there's a growing interest in reading and writing machines.
*   **AI Drugs**: The FDA approved 3 AI based diagnostic products and pharma companies are investing in AI-driven drug development.
*   **Increasing the knowledge gap**: AI Patents are on the rise. The most patented field is Computer Vision
*   **AI Hardware**: AI hardware seems to be an interesting field to be in. Several global startups are investing into this technology
*   **Handheld AI**: Samsung, Huawei and Xiomi top the list for performance in AI tasks for mobile devices.
*   **华为守住大门**:华为拥有 5G 技术的大部分重要专利，很可能成为为网络提供商构建生态系统的关键角色。

    ## 政治

    这部分主要是关于两个调查，所以我在这里总结一下结果:

*   美国人不赞成人工智能用于战争，除非他们知道有人在这么做

*   美国人不知道谁应该决定如何开发和部署人工智能

*   大多数人同意公司应该有一个人工智能审查委员会来处理道德决策

*   公众普遍认为高水平的人工智能指日可待——9 年后——(比专家的预测要快得多)

*   大多数美国人相信美国军方或学术研究人员能够开发人工智能

*   脸书被评为最不值得信任的人工智能开发者。

*   治理挑战:防止人工智能辅助监控侵犯隐私和公民自由；防止人工智能传播虚假或有害的内容；防止网络攻击；保护数据隐私。

*   安格拉·默克尔计划到 2025 年在人工智能领域投资 30 亿欧元

*   芬兰在 ML 的基础上培训了 1%的人口，成为第一个实施国家人工智能战略的欧洲国家。

*   Finland's goal is to become the a world leader in practical AI applications.

*   Trump signed an executive order creating a program called the "American AI Initiative" with unclear goals.

*   With Google's exit from project Maven (ML enabled military imagery) a startup was founded and takes over the project and is pushing to employ drones into large-scale conflicts

*   With recent developments in cameras, mass surveillance is growing in technical sophistication

*   California approved a bill last year that criminalize the use of bots to interact with a California person "with the intent to mislead".

*   As stated before, deep fakes are being discussed in the American House of Representatives.

*   Researchers find racial bias in Amazon's Rekognition

*   Georgetown Centre for Security and Emerging Technology is the largest US centre focused on AI and policy.

## China

*   Alibaba and JD.com have entered the animal and insect husbandry business.
*   China R&D spending grows fast but lags in market share
*   China is going through increases in industrial automation and job displacement.
*   Robots are taking over warehouses in China
*   China is publishing more high impact machine learning academic research

## Predictions

*   There is a new wave of start-ups for NLP. They will raise over $100M
*   Self-driving will stay in R&D.
*   Privacy-preserving ML will be adopted by Fortune 2000 companies to beef up data security and privacy policy.
*   Institutions will build AI undergraduate degrees to fill talent void.
*   Google will have a major breakthrough in quantum computing hardware, triggering at least 5 startups to do quantum ML.
*   Governance and AI will become a bigger topic and one major AI company will make a substantial change to their governance model.

* * *

What are your thoughts on their report? What are you most excited about in AI for 2019-2020?