# What Are Node Js & Top Most 10 Features of Node Js

> 原文：[https://dev.to/niroshajayaram1/what-are-node-js-top-most-10-features-of-node-js-10i4](https://dev.to/niroshajayaram1/what-are-node-js-top-most-10-features-of-node-js-10i4)

 is an open source environment that runs on multiple platforms by javascript on the server. It can generate dynamic page content and used to create, open, read, write, delete, and close files on the server in the form of collected data to add, delete, modify data in our database.

**Node js** connection handling mechanism is super efficient than our existing classical thread based model Thread-based networking is relatively inefficient and very difficult to use.

Let’s see the Features:

**Non-Blocking Thread Execution: Gain the Enormous Speed**

Non-blocking means, we can execute the code simultaneously without waiting for the end of the first level execution. The execution performs under the stack method. This concept makes node js extremely fast and efficient. For example, If we want to load 50 chunks of data and each one takes 50ms. Node js typically might take less than 1ms so are time to fetch 50 requests might be <51ms.

**Multi-Threaded**

**Node js** is a non-blocking which means that all the functions deleted to that even loop and executed in a multi-thread that is handled by node js run time. Node js executes on a different core.

**Cross Platform**

**Node js** is cross-platform meaning it works on various platforms like Windows and Linux. Node js developed with the correct structure can be packaged into an executable containing all its own dependencies.

Build & Compile: Importance of Faster development Environment

The main reason for node js is to build easy because it uses JavaScript as its main language to build web applications. Node js has reduced the complexity by performing 30ms to run the code.

**Object Oriented**

It is object-oriented that frameworks like CoffeeScript and TypeScript solved these issues but came as a bolt on for those who seriously cared about coding standards.

**Synchronous Code Execution**

The synchronous method in node js mostly used in the blocked operation Non-blocking code execution is conceptually more difficult to code than code that runs in a straight line because we have blocks of code hanging around waiting for asynchronous events to return.

**Open Source package on NPM (Node Package Manager)**

NPM is the heart of Node Js. The Node community is enormous and the number of permissive open source projects available to help you save time is mind-boggling.

**Create both SASS, Service and Desktop Platforms**

Node Js provides Software as a service (SaaS) is a software distribution model in which a third-party provider hosts applications and makes them available to customers over the Internet.

In a cloud web application, there was a pretty demand for node js to be used for desktop applications.

**Front-end and Back-end Developers using the Same Language**

The front-end development code interacts with the back-end server to pull out the data on the front end UI side.

The Back-end application directly interacts with the database via an application programming interface (API), which pulls, saves, or changes data.

Having the backend and frontend skillsets merged, buts the brightest minds working together instead of pulling in different directions.

**Sockets and two-way Data Binding**

The two-way data binding is request and response. The clients asked a request to the server, the server responds to clients simultaneously. If one user changes some data, all the other users can be updated in milliseconds. NodeJS was the first to do it well and still does it better than any other framework.

These are the major features of [**Node Js development services**](https://www.webnexs.com/nodejs-ecommerce-developer.php?utm_source=dev&utm_medium=article&utm_term=ecommerce&utm_campaign=nirosha) Node js is the best one while comparing other features.