# Articles trending over various DEV communities | For Web Developers

> 原文：[https://dev.to/full_stackgeek/articles-trending-over-various-dev-communities-for-web-developers-4fhb](https://dev.to/full_stackgeek/articles-trending-over-various-dev-communities-for-web-developers-4fhb)

In this article, we would be listing out trending articles across various dev communities like [dev.to](https://dev.to), [Full Stack Geek](https://fullstackgeek.blogspot.com), [DZone.com](https://dzone.com/) and so on. So let's start:

**1) Some Agile Rules Are Meant to Be Broken**
**About This Article:** There is a rule within the Scrum Agile framework that dictates that there are to be absolutely no breaks between sprints. The team is required to flow smoothly out of one development iteration and directly into the next with clockwork-like regularity in an unabated quest to deliver value. Pausing between sprints, the rule says, would significantly compromise the team's ability to learn and adapt, rendering them less agile.
**Read the complete article here: [Some Agile Rules Are Meant to Be Broken](https://dzone.com/articles/breaking-agile-rules)**

**2) PHP Cookies and Sessions | Detailed Explanation | Coding Examples**
**About This Article:** In this article, we would be discussing the Concepts like Sessions and Cookies in great depth with Coding Examples in PHP. We would be seeing the differences between Sessions and Cookies in PHP. We would also be learning how to set Sessions and Cookies in PHP through Coding Examples.
**Read the complete article here: [PHP Cookies and Sessions | Detailed Explanation | Coding Examples](https://fullstackgeek.blogspot.com/2019/06/php-cookies-and-sessions-examples.html)**

**3) Smart Pipes and Smart Endpoints With Service Mesh** **About This Article:** Microservices communicate significantly over the network. As the number of services grows in your architecture, the risks due to an unreliable network grows too.
**Read the complete article here: [Smart Pipes and Smart Endpoints With Service Mesh](https://dzone.com/articles/smart-pipes-and-smart-endpoints-with-service-mesh)**

**4) InnoDB vs MyISAM | Storage Engines | Tabular Differences**
**About This Article:** In this article, we would be discussing Main Differences between Storage Engines like InnoDB and MyISAM, written in Tabular form for great understanding. Before moving to the comparison between the two most popular MySQL Storage Engines, we need to know what exactly are these Storage Engines. So, these are basically the underlying software MySQL components. They can handle the SQL operations for different table types (like transactional and non-transactional tables) to store and manage data/information in a database.
**Read the complete article here: [InnoDB vs MyISAM | Storage Engines | Tabular Differences](https://fullstackgeek.blogspot.com/2019/05/main-differences-between-innodb-and-myisam.html)** 

**5) Var vs Let in JavaScript**
**About This Article:** Declaring variables in Javascript was not a cake walk up until 2015 when ECMA 2015 was introduced and hence let and const was introduced and we got rid of var (It still works though!).
Why I have used the phrase "got rid of"?, Imagine you are allowed to declare variables again and again within the same scope (which is allowed when you are using var and obviously not allowed in case of let), it would lead to a mess as your code base grows significantly and hence let was introduced which would throw an error if you ever try to re-declare a variable within the same scope.
**Read the complete article here: [Var vs Let in JavaScript](https://fullstackgeek.blogspot.com/2019/02/var-vs-let-javascript.html)**

**6) Top 20 CSS Navigation Menus**
**About This Article:** A good user flow contributes enormously to a successful website. The content, positioning and appearance should therefore be well thought out.
**Read the complete article here: [Top 20 CSS Navigation Menus](https://dev.to/webdeasy/top-20-css-navigation-menus-3jdj)**

**7) Introduction to Elasticsearch and the ELK stack**
**About This Article:** In this article, we are discussing Elasticsearch. We would be starting with the introduction of Elasticsearch, will be having a brief discussion over so-called ELK stack. We would then move to the architecture of Elasticsearch and what the heck are nodes, clusters, shards, indexes, documents, replication and so on. So let's start.
**Read the complete article here: [Introduction to Elasticsearch and the ELK stack](https://fullstackgeek.blogspot.com/2019/03/introduction-to-elasticsearch-and-elk-stack.html)**

**8) Best PHP Frameworks (2019) | Google Trends | Stack Overflow Insights**
**About This Article:** In this article, we will be discussing the best PHP Frameworks along with their pros and cons in great depth so that one might get a clear understanding of which one to chose. Our comprehensive research would include some Latest PHP Frameworks.
**Read the complete article here: [Best PHP Frameworks (2019) | Google Trends | Stack Overflow Insights](https://fullstackgeek.blogspot.com/2019/05/best-php-frameworks.html)**

**9) What should I learn after PHP | Roadmap 2019**
**About This Article:** In this article, we would be discussing the roadmap a developer should follow after learning/working in PHP or any other language for a significant amount of time.
**Read the complete article here: [What should I learn after PHP | Roadmap 2019](https://fullstackgeek.blogspot.com/2019/05/what-should-i-learn-after-php.html)**

**10) Asynchronous JavaScript | Callbacks | Closures | Promises**
**About This Article:** In this article, we are going to discuss Asynchronous tasks in significant depth. We will be discussing what exactly are Asynchronous tasks, what the hack are callbacks, closures, promises and much more in the context of JavaScript.
**Read the complete article here: [Asynchronous JavaScript | Callbacks | Closures | Promises](https://fullstackgeek.blogspot.com/2019/02/asynchronous-javascript-explained-for-beginners.html)**