# Choose from the best React Native VS Native Apps

> 原文：[https://dev.to/webmobtech/choose-from-the-best-react-native-vs-native-apps-40a6](https://dev.to/webmobtech/choose-from-the-best-react-native-vs-native-apps-40a6)

According to the statistics every 1 minute there are 4 apps uploading to App Store and Google Play daily. So If you have an app idea you have more chances to get more success in the mobile business.

Users have more options to choose the right application from the list but application with high performance, good user experience, innovative idea, seamless navigation will always make the difference in the market. These are the criteria of the users and if you fail to meet their criteria your innovative application will quickly be forgotten.

“Native apps” are taking more time to develop compared to cross-platform apps. Cross-platform technology provides faster deployment and without compromise the quality.

“In 2012 Mark Zuckerberg commented, “The biggest mistake we made as a company was betting too much on HTML5 as opposed to native”. React Native was announced at Facebook’s React.js conference in February 2015 and open-sourced in March 2015.”

React native is the best solution developers find to develop fast and rapidly transforming apps. And that's why React native becomes famous.

“React Native has unlocked native mobile development to web engineers who may now apply their skills to build iOS and Android applications in JavaScript. For the first time, cross-platform JavaScript-based applications feel as if they were written in the native language of choice for the platforms.”

— Jeff Meyerson, the creator of the podcast Software Engineering Daily

Let’s discuss each topic separately so that we can have the great read until the end.

Reasons why React Native consider as the FUTURE OF MOBILE APPS, pros, and cons of React Native.

1.  Create Cross-Platform (Android and iOS) Apps

The main benefit for the React Native is you can have only one team to develop your Android and iOS apps mean cost-cutting and time-saving. You won’t need the different code for both the platforms you need only one codebase which works for both Android and iOS. Not even in developing you will save time on testing and updates too because you only need to test run one application.

At WebMob Technologies we have the experienced team to develop your mobile application using React Native platform at a more faster way and with the team of most talented and experienced developers and project managers.

1.  Build your MVP quickly and spend less money

By choosing React Native you not only save money in developing but form that you can invest more money in testing your business model which is the most important part of any business.

React Native is used by industry giants like Facebook, Instagram, Tesla, and Skype. You can also use some platform-specific features by implementing third-party SDKs.

React Native is supported by Facebook, who heavily invest in the platform and even they have used it in their own production app like Instagram.

1.  Efficiency and Performance

React Native is an open source platform, which means anyone can contribute and make the platform better.

When using React Native, any updates or alternation are instantly displayed by means of hot reloading.

React Native is smoothly combined with Native code (Objective-C, Java, Swift). In case you want to add more implementation or some custom functionality, It allows you to get native technology in action.

We have many applications built with React Native one of them is: Zroomm On-Demand Courier Delivery Services.

You can also read the case study of Zroomm

1.  User Interface

React Native works with the flexbox, so it's UI approach is so responsive and you will get the best UI by using this platform as your web and mobile app development.

1.  Popular apps were built using React Native

Businesses are choosing the React Native platform as their app development priority.

Bloomberg, Airbnb, Gyroscope Health, Uber Eats, Instagram, etc… are created using the React Native.

Top applications developed in React Native
Talking about the cons of React Native

React Native Need expertise. Steep Learning Curve

If you are new to javascript and react native than learning it for an average joe is a little harder.

Especially when you are fresher in the mobile app development field than it’s the tough task for you to learn the React Native.

We at WebMob Technologies have the most talented and experienced team of React Native developers.

Now let’s talk about the Native Apps. and also discuss the Pros and Cons of the Native Apps.

When it comes to the platform-specific application development Native apps are the option. If the App is for the Android platform, it will use the java; If the app is for the windows platform, it will use c#; If the app is for the iOS platform, it will use the Objective C or Swift.

When it comes to Native Apps and it’s a platform specific application it has the full liberty to use all the native features available, such as camera, contact list, Bluthoot, and GPS.

Native Apps are downloadable from their App stores, for Android Google Play Store, and for iOS/Apple App Store.

Native Apps provide app developers with the standardize SDK, a software development kit with a set of tools, libraries, documentation, code samples, and guide so that developers can develop the apps for the particular application.

There is specific design IDE for platforms like Android and iOS, Google provides Android Studio for Android app development and Apple provides the XCode for Apple application development. This software helps the developers as a code editor, a compiler, a debugger and also helps in finding the bug.

Pros and Cons of Native Apps

Pros of Native Apps

1.  Performance

Native apps work with the device's built-in features - like the camera, microphone, etc. - they're are easier to work with and perform better on the device.

1.  Interactive and Perspective

When you create the platform specific application you will get the good user experience as it follows the development guideline of the specific operating system.

The flow of the application is very natural as it develops for the specific platform followed by the specific guidelines.

Cons of Native Apps

1.  Doubled the time and price

Native application development is the platform-specific development means if you need a single app in both the platform you need a separate team and the cost will also increase because you need the developers that are experienced in Android and another team for the iOS.

Means you need more developers and thus the cost will increase as the team increase.

Developing Native apps takes more time and more money as it needs more sources.

Maintainance cost is also high for native apps.

So, Native Applications are costly and need more time to develop.

1.  No Flexibility

Developers have no flexibility regarding the platform for developing native applications.

Developers have to code separately for Android and iOS at a time.

If you are hiring for your native app idea you will have to hire two teams one for the Android and other for the iOS.

At last, Native Apps can be profitable for many companies but not for all. Some of the startups have less budget and have less time can choose another option as React Native the platform has its own benefits.

Conclusion

If you still have questions regarding which platform to choose for your next big project, Contact us and our experienced team will help you with your doubts and definitely respond to you with the best option related to your business, budget and time.

We are the Top Mobile and Web App Development Company since 2010 and have an extensive portfolio related to most of the industries so that you can easily make the decision to choose the top app development company.