# Twitter 上的最佳夏季标签活动——你怎么看？

> 原文：<https://dev.to/michellstarc/best-summer-hashtag-campaigns-on-twitter-what-do-you-think-4cgl>

What is that first thing which clicks right across your mind with the word hashtag? A brand or the trend? In the 21st century, social platforms have become a crucial medium of investment for all brands. Twitter is mainly used to promote the launched campaigns or to spread the word among the world. Brands trickily incorporate the essence of Twitter in their marketing strategies to grab the attention and to create awareness.
What do you all think, Why hashtags are considered as the beauty of Twitter? Why is Twitter incomplete without the trending hashtags? You know there was a time when the word "trend" was mainly associated with fashion, and now it is highly connected with lifestyle and innovation.
The simple combination of letters works as a secret success formula for brands! Hashtags add in a lively effect in just those ordinary contrasting words. Let’s have a look at how brands achieved huge fame just by approaching the audience with creative hashtag campaigns.
**#PutACanOnIt**
This is the trendiest hashtag of Red Bull which grabbed the attention of entire Twitter. Guess where the brand got inspired and came up with this creative hashtag? Let us reveal this secret! The [cheap essay writing service](https://www.7dollaressay.com) brand captured the idea from one of the viral image of Twitter- a photographer portrayed outstanding skills by positioning the can above the Mini Cooper and made it look like a trademark of the brand.
This mind-blowing technique encouraged the brand with an innovative idea and the brand without missing the chance seized the opportunity and turned the idea into trend #PutACanOnIt.
**#TweetFromTheSeat**
Since the glamour is not the core of each brand. Therefore, it becomes quite difficult to create an eye-catchy content with which the brands can grab the attention and acquire recognition. The tissue brand Charmin could be the best one to quote as an example here. Imagine at what grounds of creativity a tissue brand can play? But the creative of Charmin did!
The brand launched a campaign with the hashtag "Tweet from the seat" and do you know what is the most fantastic part of this campaign is? The brand succeeded in making it the trend. Just after the campaign launched the Twitter was filled with #TweetFromTheSeat. Sounds entertaining!
**#WorthSaying**
Wonder maximizing the brand's reach with zero investment. Well, it could happen! The campaign launched by L'Oreal Paris granted women a chance to share the critical event of life. And oh, women love sharing their important yet beautiful events. So, this creative #WorthSaying encouraged women to spread the word, which is essential for them.
Even celebrities equally contributed to this offered opportunity, and few of the Tweets by celebs also go viral. See, how just a single set of words can turn the tables of recognition for brands!
**#ShareYourEars**
The word summers more sound like a metaphor of "vacations" and who can avoid the thought of amusement parks when it comes to summer vacations. The highly admired brand, Disney launched social hashtag campaign #ShareYourEars. The campaign was based on the concept of raising charity funds.
The brand promoted the strategy with the motivated technique of sharing the picture while wearing Mickey Mouse ears, and for each post, Disney added $5 to the charity fund. The Tweet immediately got viral along with the reputed image received huge attention. Quite interesting! Isn't it?
**#TrippinWithTarte**
Creating Hashtags is not only about creating the trend; it's more about influencing the fans and reaching the heights of popularity. Similarly, a famous cosmetic brand organized a paid trip for the prominent influencers of the industry.
The influencers shared the experience of the trip by incorporating the #TrippinWithTarte and boom! The brand successfully reached millions of followers and fans of influencers. That's what we call must-to-applaud creativity!
**#DoUsAFlavor**
Lays know how to play with the hashtag strategy wisely! It is observed that the brand has high commands over the techniques of hashtags. From #lifeneedsflavor to #wishflavors, the brand has successfully achieved the purpose of social media promotion.
The most memorable yet viral hashtag of Lays is #DoUsAFlavor in which the fans were supposed to vote for their favorite flavor of Lays, and the winning flavor was granted an opportunity to win $1 million. The most fantastic part about this campaign is that the brand made a mind-blowing fusion of marketing- celebrity endorsement with the hashtag. This win-win strategy of the brand worked in augmenting its reach.
**#WantAnR8**
It is the most extended yet trendiest campaign of Twitter. Like who doesn't get fascinated by hearing the word "Audi"? Yes, we all do! The campaign was launched when Joanne McCoy tweeted how much she admires the R8 model, and she has a great desire to ride this innovative model of the brand.
Guess what just happened when the band got to know the wish of their fan? Oh well, the girl drove in an R8 for a day! Later that became a trend, and every other user became a fan of Audi. In short, Twitter became more a more platform of Audi than a social medium.
There was a time when brands used to invest millions in reaching their audience or in achieving recognition. Now it has become a game of aligning words and associating trends with it. Remember the time when the hash was just a symbol on a mobile phone? See how amazingly technology has just turned a general symbol into a useful strategy for brands.
Although where brands have earned fame on the same side, many hashtags have ruined the image also. Hashtags though look so easy to create, but it takes a great sense of creativity to make or break the words in a way that can be advantageous for brands. Now, what do you think? The hashtags you use are usually for fun, or it has some hidden purposes too? Give it a thought!